if you're just joining us welcome here
to BBC News we're staying with that
breaking news things very fluid the
situation changing all of the time but
Israel the media says 13 hostages held
by Hamas in Gaza have been handed over
to the Red Cross these some of the
recent pictures they are thought now to
be in Egypt under that deal broken by
katar most of them we know are children
now from the Rafa border crossing with
Egypt ultimately they'll be taken to a
military Air Base in southern Israel
then onto an Israeli hospital and
ultimately reunited with their families
now as that is happening Thailand's
prime minister confirmed a little
earlier that 12 Thai hostages have also
been released today all of the men as
part of a separate deal with Hamas now
under the main deal 39 Palestinian
prisoners were also due to be released
from Israeli jails later in the day now
the Red Cross says it is for
facilitating the release and transfer of
both the hostages and prisoners and of
course there is now a 4-day pause in the
fighting it's 11 hours old but it is
holding and as a result convoys of Aid
trucks have already headed into Gaza
those are the key planks as we look
again at those pictures of those Red
Cross Vehicles just going through the
crossing point that happened about 20
minutes ago let's go back to Anna Foster
she's there in Tel Aviv and and it's
worth uh for anyone just joining us uh
you explaining where you are because so
many people gathered there just like
they have been for weeks uh just waiting
for this moment which will be such an
important moment for Israel after 7
weeks that's right Matthew this this
place this Square outside the uh Tel
Aviv Museum of Art is is known as
hostages Square now and this is a place
where many of the the hostages families
have come on on regular occasions they'd
come here for vigils they've come here
sometimes for for protests just a couple
of days ago I was talking to the the
mother of one of the hostages and and
they had come here to to hold a piano
concert in his honor he was a keen piano
player so this is really the Hub the
focal point uh for many of the hostages
families for many people across Israel
and that is why you've seen the crowds
building here uh you see the posters the
faces you know the names of these
hostages that are on on everything from
from stickers to posters just big you
know lit up Billboards around Tel Aviv
and around the country and people are
gathering here now waiting for
confirmation that those hostages have
been released now as we were saying an
Israeli Security Source has said that
those hostages are now in the hands of
Israeli Security Services but it appears
not yet actually physically inside
Israel because as we were saying they
pass out of Gaza into Egypt first of all
and then Israeli uh Security Services
will bring them eventually back into
Israel once again uh we also um have a
quote now one of the main Israeli news
channels Channel 13 is saying that the
uh the head of maggan David Odon which
is the Israeli Ambulance Service says
that 13 Israeli hostages are in good
condition and speaking because I think
that was a key part of this deal as well
and and in fact when we heard the
qataris announce it yesterday we brought
you that press conference here on BBC
News one of the questions that was asked
as as part of that press conference is
are of those hostages that are being
released those 13 are they alive are
they well because of course these are
are vital questions that you know people
don't necessarily know the answer to um
but the Israeli Ambulance Service MDA
says that the 13 Israeli hostages who
are being released today on on day one
of this 4-day deal are in good condition
and are speaking and I think the
choreography of what we see today is is
is important as well because this will
hopefully you know people here are
hoping that they will see this repeated
over the next 4 days this is sort of the
third part of what will happen today
started with the ceasefire we saw
additional trucks of humanitarian Aid
pass into Gaza The Next Step will be the
confirmation of the release of those
hostages you know we've seen and we see
those pictures again of those Red Cross
Jeeps coming out of Gaza through the
Rafa Crossing into Egypt you know all
very positive signs all small steps
along the way the next step I think will
be the official confirmation from Israel
uh that those hostages have been
returned home that they are back on
Israeli soil and then that will trigger
if you like the fourth part of this deal
which is the release of Palestinian uh
prisoners who are being held in Israeli
jails we've been watching as well those
live pictures of OFA prison in the West
Bank it's an Israeli detention center
and over the next 4 days 150 Palestinian
prisoners women and teenage boys in the
main are expected to be released from
there as part of this this deal a 2-hour
window was the suggestion uh certainly
in that press conference by the kataris
yesterday that after Israel confirmed
safe receipts of the hostages within two
hours they would then release the
Palestinian prisoners um the agreed
Palestinian prisoners that are being
held in OFA prison if that all goes to
plan Matthew then it should repeat for
the next 3 days and I think there are
hopes on all sides that that that could
potentially continue Israel has said
that for every 10 additional Israeli
hostages over and above the 50 that have
been agreed they are prepared to
continue to extend that ceasefire by 24
hours katav said that they hope that
that this could be a more permanent
truce I think depending on who you speak
to that might be
a that that might be a you know a big
ambition to have at the moment but
certainly this deal which has taken so
long to agree on so long to negotiate
it's further down the line than it's
been so far and and it it seems we are
close the international committee for
the Red Cross um has told the BBC that
eight of their staff traveling in four
icrc vehicles have transported hostages
across the border into Egypt as we've
been seeing there was a doctor as part
of the icrc team the hostages were
handed over by them to the Egyptian
authorities at the Rafa border crossing
um it seems according to uh sources told
the BBC see that Egypt have now handed
them on to Israeli security sources um
and the next stage will be the return of
those hostages actually back to Israel
to Israeli hospitals that are prepared
and ready to receive them and where the
families of those 13 are also waiting to
be reunited with
them